more than 150 days into Israel's war on
Gaza the airdropping of humanitarian Aid
aimed at news Camas not the people who
need it Palestinians have Washington to
thank for that next door in LC's Egypt
what's taking place in Gaza is testing
the bounds of political descent and
crimes against memory The Taking of a
people's history and culture and erasing
it
you've seen the images in the media
coverage the US airdropping Aid into
Northern Gaza to feed hungry
Palestinians headline news but also a
textbook case of cognitive dissonance on
Washington's part dropping food while
continuing to provide Israel with bombs
to pulverize Gaza what makes the
starvation there different is that it's
deliberate Israel is manufacturing the
this famine it has systematically
attacked what little Aid gets through
last week more than a 100 Palestinians
who lined up to get some flour to cook
with were slaughtered by Israeli troops
Israel's response to that atrocity was
straight out of its misinformation
Playbook deny then blame Palestinians
then accept limited responsibility we've
seen it so many times before what is
unprecedented though is the scale of
what is now unfolding in Gaza the hunger
the mass killing the rewriting of the
map and the gulf between what is
happening on the ground and the obsolete
narratives coming out of the White House
and the mainstream news media has never
been
bigger the US Air drops into the Gaza
Strip are pure theater US military
planes making the first air drop to Gaza
the US has been supplying thousands of
tons of goods to the Gaza Strip but
those have been high explosives and to
then claim that somehow this is
ameliorated by
38,000 meals ready to eat is quite
obscene to put it
politely but that is what it has come to
the United States of America a
superpower is unable or too afraid of
the political consequences to force its
relatively tiny Ally Israel to allow
humanitarian Aid into Gaza to feed star
Palestinians now resorting to airdrops
that create the impression of urgency
the illusion that the US is willing to
go to extraordinary lengths to save
Palestinian lives today the United
States airlifted 24.5 metric tons or
more than 54,000 lb of un humanitarian
supplies to provide it was more
performative than practical and had more
to do with feeding news outlets imagery
that suggests that America cares than
getting Palestinians the food they need
to survive when I saw the US airdrop
food my first response was really anger
it was horror that this is apparently
the best the US can do who is the super
power here is it the us or Israel there
is no place that's safe there's no place
where you can find Reliable food where
people can get shelter garans are
exhausted angry and scared
and do not buy this argument that the US
is suddenly caring about them by
airdropping a handful of food people
have have compared these scenes um uh to
the Hunger Games and for good reason air
drops is something you use in otherwise
inaccessible Geographic locations a
Mountaintop the middle of the Jungle
what the US has done is provide less
meals than would have fit into a single
truck and the reason that these trucks
aren't getting into the Gaza Strip is
because there's a policy decision by
Israel fully endorsed supported by the
United States to starve these people
into submission so the Biden
Administration is essentially doing the
least effective and most expensive
method of getting Aid to people that
need it because Israel simply won't
concede to any American pressure on this
one relatively simple point and there is
something dystopian about these air
drops and about the way that they pit
people against each other I'm directing
the US military as if the air drops
aren't absurd or insulting enough the
Biden Administration has now proposed
building a port to deliver Aid by ship
that would cost billions take months to
construct while Aid trucks are already
parked on Gaza doorstep currently on the
rare occasion when a truckload of food
actually makes it into Northern Gaza
this happens the flower massacre in Gaza
City in which at least 112 Palestinians
lining up for food were killed by
Israeli forces Israel then deployed its
hasbara its disinformation machine to
pump even more fog into the war zone a
mob ambushed the a trucks bringing the
Convoy to a halt it put out aerial
images purporting to prove that
Palestinians were to blame by charging
at Israeli troops and edited out the
parts that showed them being shot run
over by Israeli tanks which is
consistent with what has become a
sickening pattern as one human rights
NGO euromed monitor put it the Israeli
shooting of starving Palestinian
civilians receiving aid has become a
regular practice a lot of Palestinian
feared going there because they knew
that the Israelis might just start
shooting at them and that's exactly what
happened and Reports say that this went
on for about an hour and a half after it
stopped Palestinians went back to the
Atri and they started shooting again and
this time they drove over uh the injured
and dead bodies of Palestinians now what
unfolded in the media how this was
reported it was a chaotic
incident a chaotic incident this is a
word that is used for someone storming a
football field not someone killing
dozens of Palestinians who have not had
food for days for weeks Israel claimed
from the beginning that there was a mob
it was a stampede and that choice of
words is so interesting because what
that really suggests is an unruly crowd
these crazy Palestinians desperate for
food who knows what they're going to do
and we as Israeli soldiers are
threatened and that framing which
frankly too much of the media accepted
too quickly it appears most who died
were crushed by a crowd rushing the
trucks or were run down as those trucks
driven by gin began to flee the mob
scene those the Israeli military seeing
the damage that this massacre could
cause offered a fairly ludicrous
explanation to blame Palestinians for
their own deaths and fairly quickly we
saw this explanation unravel
it may be it may have happened again as
I said before it's a war zone if it
happened I can say happened by mistake
Guna WS didn't come from the aid trucks
they came from the Israeli military but
the US continued to go along with this
very threadbear Israeli explanation and
not to hold Israel to account for this
massacre Israel is creating new facts on
the
ground cementing them into the landscape
of Gaza you can see it in the creation
of a new buffer zone inside the border
wall that would Rob Goins of roughly
1/5th of their
land and the paving of a new Israeli
built Highway that slices the strip into
and will allow Israel to control
security the movement of people and
goods these are familiar scenes now as
hunger grips the entire population
much of the western mainstream media is
struggling to find the right way to
describe what Israel is doing in Gaza to
come up with suitable terminology
framing it as a humanitarian crisis
disguises what it really is and
occupying power committing a genocide
the Israelis are mapping out the strip
they are effectively acting as if they
own
[Applause]
it
they're trying to sell it as this place
for Israelis and for zionists
specifically to come and live in these
are not stories we're hearing about
we're still hearing about the genocide
and there is nothing to be done when
reality is the end is the annihilation
of the Palestinians in Gaza if a
ceasefire is not administered
immediately that is where the Israeli
authorities are struggling in the
construction of the news narrative
getting more Aid to the people that need
it not to the Kamas Fighters we will
work with our allies um but no one wants
the food to go to Hamas not your allies
not you but they do want it to go to
starving babies as Adept as they have
been over the years at manipulating news
coverage misinforming audiences that has
proved to be no match for the the
evidence Palestinians have been posting
and people around the world have been
seeing on their feeds and targeting
Palestinian journalists in Gaza killing
them in record numbers has not been
enough to stop the truth coming out
images that are reminisent of another
genocide that for Israelis hits close to
home the World War II
Holocaust social media has been a
catastrophe for the Israelis yes on the
one hand they can get their message out
quite easily through Tik Tok Instagram
whatever platform may be but there's so
much content being pumped out from the
Palestinian perspective that Israel
doesn't know how to manage it you can
obfuscate and try to convince people
that all the gazans are terrorists or
every child in Gaza of 5 years old is a
potential Hamas fighter but who actually
believes that Israel will until the end
of its days be tainted by the accusation
of genocide now
that's bad for any state and the differ
difference here in comparison with
fairly recent genocides ironically
despite Israel's best efforts to keep
journalists out of the Gaza Strip no
genocidal assault has been broadcast as
extensively in real time as what we are
seeing in the Gaza Strip over the past 5
months you have seen images of
Palestinians and children in specific
who have been so
malnourished that they are dying and
they're going to haunt not not just the
reputation of Israel but the entire
world we've seen these images from the
Holocaust what does it say for us to see
it again for it to be happening without
anybody lifting a finger and contrary to
the past these images are accessible
these crimes are documented we need to
make sure that history doesn't repeat
itself that the Palestinians do not
become the victims of a new
Holocaust
to Egypt now where journalists in the
capital staged a daring protest over
Gaza pointing fingers close to home and
where the president's loyalists in the
media have had to work overtime minak
shiavi is here with the details ever
since Israel launched its assault on
Gaza the war has been a delicate subject
for president Abdul fatah LCC and by
extension the country's media the chasm
between the public outrage against
Israel and kaido's ambiguous approach to
the war has led to censorship of news
coverage and suppression of public
protest the exception is the Egyption
journalist Syndicate multiple
demonstrations have taken place the
latest last Saturday took aim at Arab
governments not a single news Outlet in
Egypt reported on the protest a sign of
how sensitive this issue is for the CC
government despite controlling at least
in theory the Rafa Crossing into
Southern Gaza kairo has remained largely
passive as Israel has blocked Aid trucks
and massacred Palestinian civilians
seeking Refuge there it has also
prevented journalists trying to get into
Gaza to help its safe face the
government has a host of supporters in
the media it can count on here's how
some of them described progress on the
delivery of Aid last
week
with the risk of an Israeli invasion of
Rafa driving Palestinians over the
Egyptian border we can expect to see the
propaganda and the policing of descent
go up a notch thanks mea for 5 months
now the listening post has covered
Israel's war on Gaza through the prism
of the media
including the unprecedented number of
Palestinian journalists killed but what
is taking place in Gaza is much bigger
it is a genocidal assault on Palestinian
history existence and culture most of
gaza's museums universities and
libraries now lie in Ruins too many
cultural creators and custodians have
been killed and when South Africa
invoked the genocide convention at the
international court of justice it noted
that in Israel's destruction of gaza's
archives and landmarks it is
obliterating Palestinian personal lives
private memories histories and Futures
this is not the first time Palestinian
culture has been the target of Israeli
destruction and looting however what has
happened since October 7th has eclipsed
anything we have seen before including
in the Noca of
1948 what happens when cultural heritage
is erased who controls the historical
narrative and to what effect to grasp
the enormity of what's been lost and
what it means we spoke to gazen writer
and historian Jihad Abu
Salim to understand the scale of
Destruction in Gaza today one needs to
understand the nature of the war Israel
has launched against Palestinians we're
not talking about conventional Warfare
this is a war of annihilation that
targets the foundations of
society we've seen universities bombed
libraries museums Israel is trying to
prevent Palestinians from reclaiming and
reestablishing life in Gaza as they knew
it my name is Jihad Abu Salim I'm from
the city of darl balah located in the
middle of the Gaza Strip it's where I
grew up and spent most of my life Gaza
City was the only Palestinian coastal
city that was not conquered by Zionist
militias in
1948 and that gave Gaza uh huge
significance and placed it as the
Beating Heart of preserving Palestinian
nationalism and furthering the
Palestinian cause for Liberation and
emancipation
by destroying in universities museums
libraries and archives Israel seeks to
make our memory whether it's Collective
institutional inaccessible it's an
assault on
continuity they want to force people out
of Gaza but also they want to make sure
that if people return to Gaza they find
nothing and will for eternity in this
limbo of nothingness in this void
[Music]
gaza's old city with its masks like or a
church like the Church of St poriferous
testifies to in's complex and
multifaceted
history alar mque is the second oldest
mque in Palestine after AA MK and from
the footage that we've seen it seems
that the mosque was deliberately
targeted because there are photos that
show surrounding buildings standing
intact while the mosque has been bombed
to smithin so Israel is trying to impose
a rupture between the present and the
past and of course the future and
destroying an iconic structure like
musque is just part of that
effort the goal of targeting uh gaza's
archives is to make it impossible for
people to rebuild and reclaim what has
been lost we did not only lose
historical documents but also land Deeds
land
registration infrastructure plans and
schemes now we hear all these reports of
people going back to their neighborhoods
and being unable to recognize where the
street that they lived on was located
where their homes were and they think
that by destroying institutions or uh
archives or looting museums they can
destroy Gaza as a place and therefore
prevent people from returning there or
reestablishing their
lives
Gaza and its District have suffered a
lot in terms of the targeting and
destruction of historic and Heritage
sites after
1967 after Gaza became under Israeli
occupation Israeli defense minister MOS
Dean built an entire Infamous career in
addition to being a war criminal of
looting artifacts from different parts
of Gaza and Palestine and storing them
in his own home but also in the 1970s
and 80s Israeli forces alongside Israeli
archaeologists looted a
4,500 year old Canaanite Cemetery
located in uh derl balah my hometown and
they took anything they could carry to
the Israel national museum and today I
go on the internet and I see artifacts
that were stolen and looted from this
site being being sold around the world
and that makes you wonder if Israel's
practices today are a new phenomenon or
just a continuation of a long-standing
pattern of uh destruction and looting of
Palestinian history and
culture
in this war alone Palestinians in Gaza
have lost towering figures in in in
their society who shaped and defined the
cultural and scholarly life uh in Gaza
and if there is one
individual that captures the essence of
this
city and what it stands for
it's if the Lions do not have their own
historians
the history of the hunt will always
glorify the hunters will always glorify
the
occupier was was killed while he was
Sheltering with his sister and her
children before he was killed he
received a phone call from an Israeli
officer warning him that uh they're
after him he was killed his sister was
killed the children were killed and his
brother was also killed I am an academic
I probably the toughest thing I have at
at home is an expo marker but if the
Israelis
invade if the aret has charge at US Open
Door too to Massacre us I'm going to use
that marker throw it at the Israeli
soldiers even if that is the last thing
that I would be able to do he was an
important professor and and a writer and
a poet whose impact transcended his
personal work to shaping and molding of
a generation of English-speaking
Palestinians in Gaza who mastered the
art of telling their stories but we've
also
lost a large number of cultural and
literary figures and of course many
academics this is an assault on the
people who create meaning in society and
who create the language that helps
people understand and and reflect on
their reality Israel knew what it has
been doing and continue to do by
attacking and going after our cultural
and literary and intellectual figures
but triat like Gaza is an idea and ideas
don't die buddies can perish cities can
be destroyed but the ideas that they
stand for the principles and the values
these are things that uh do not just
vanish Into Thin Air they continue to
exist and to inspire people for many
years to
come back to where we began the crisis
of Aid in Gaza a key factor in this the
accusations the Israeli government made
in January against the biggest source of
Aid in Gaza the United Nations relief
and works agency unra when Israel
alleged unra was harboring Hamas
Fighters too many Western news outlets
foremost among them the Wall Street
Journal simply bought the story the US
and multiple other governments then
pulled their funding despite the
ridiculously scant evidence that Israel
provided starving unra of the money it
needs to help Palestinians the EU and
Canada have now announced they will
resume funding in Canada's case that
will take time something the people of
Gaza simply do not have of all the
crimes against journalism since October
7th the way the unra episode was
reported is one that will weigh heavily
on the conscience of the journalists and
news editors involved or at least it
should we'll see you next time here at
the listening
post